README.md, before:

# resume-pipeline

This repository provides a reproducible pipeline for building resumes using [RenderCV](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv) and Nix.

It converts [RenderCV YAML resumes](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/schema.json) into multiple output formats (PDF, ANSI, cleaned YAML) using customizable themes and templates. The pipeline can be run locally via Nix or automated through the included GitHub Actions workflow for deployment to GitHub Pages.

## Pipeline Overview

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    %% Inputs grouped
    subgraph IN[Inputs]
        direction TB
        N_INPUT[resume.yaml]:::data
        N_THEMES[(themes dir)]:::internal
    end

    %% Process nodes
    P_RenderCV([RenderCV]):::process
    P_JSON2ANSI([json2ansi]):::process
    P_YQ([yq]):::process

    %% Internal pipeline under RenderCV
    subgraph RCV[RenderCV internals]
        direction LR
        J2([Jinja2]):::internalProcess
        TYP([Typst]):::internalProcess
        J2 -- ".typ" --> TYP
    end

    %% Outputs grouped
    subgraph OUT[Outputs]
        direction TB
        OUT_PDF[resume.pdf]:::data
        OUT_ANSI[resume.ansi]:::data
        OUT_YAML[resume.yaml]:::data
    end

    %% Flows
    N_INPUT -- "input" --> P_RenderCV
    N_THEMES -. "internal use" .-> P_RenderCV

    %% Show RenderCV using internals
    P_RenderCV --> J2
    TYP --> OUT_PDF
    J2 -- ".md (as a workaround)" --> C[resume.ansi.json]:::data

    C --> P_JSON2ANSI
    P_JSON2ANSI --> OUT_ANSI
    N_INPUT --> P_YQ
    P_YQ -- "removing comments & design section" --> OUT_YAML

```

## Usage

To build your resume, run:

```sh
nix run github:zyasserd/resume-pipeline <input_yaml> [output_basename]
```

### Example

```sh
# Basic usage (creates resume.pdf, resume.ansi, resume.yaml)
nix run github:zyasserd/resume-pipeline my-resume.yaml

# Custom output name (creates john-doe.pdf, john-doe.ansi, john-doe.yaml)  
nix run github:zyasserd/resume-pipeline my-resume.yaml john-doe
```

## Output

After running the pipeline, an `result` directory will be created in your working directory. This folder will contain:

- `<output_basename>.pdf` (PDF version)
- `<output_basename>.ansi` (ANSI text)
- `<output_basename>.yaml` (Cleaned YAML)

In addition, it will also contain:
- `flattened_pdf_lost_links.html`
    - containing the lost information in case the PDF is flattened and the links are removed
- `index.html`
    - a directory listing

You can customize themes and templates by editing files in the `themes/` directory.


## GitHub Actions Integration

This repository includes a reusable GitHub Actions workflow that automatically builds and deploys your resume to GitHub Pages. This is perfect for maintaining an always up-to-date online version of your resume.

### Using the Workflow

Create a `.github/workflows/resume.yaml` file in your repository:

```yaml
name: Build Resume
on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  build:
    uses: zyasserd/resume-pipeline/.github/workflows/main.yaml@main
    with:
      yaml_path: 'path/to/your/resume.yaml'
      output_basename: 'resume'  # optional, defaults to 'resume'
      setup_github_pages: true   # optional, defaults to true
      save_artifact: true        # optional, defaults to true
```

### Workflow Features

- **Automatic building**: Triggered on pushes to main branch or manual dispatch
- **GitHub Pages deployment**: Automatically deploys your resume as a website
- **Artifact storage**: Saves build outputs for download
- **Configurable**: Customize output names and deployment settings



## ANSI Output Width

You can control the width of the ANSI-formatted resume output by setting the following field in your YAML file:

```yaml
design:
  ansi:
    width: 80  # Set your desired terminal width (default: 80)
```

If `design.ansi.width` is not specified, the pipeline uses a default width of **80** characters.  
This value determines how wide the resume appears in the terminal or ANSI-compatible viewers.


<br>
<br>
<br>

## Schema Alternatives

This pipeline uses RenderCV's format. Here's how it compares to alternatives:

#### jsonresume.org
- **[Schema](https://github.com/jsonresume/resume-schema/blob/master/schema.json)**
- **Pros:** Well-structured schema, strong community, good HTML themes, GitHub CI integration
- **Cons:** More restrictive (e.g., limited publications support), no LaTeX support
- **Tools:** resume-cli (unmaintained), resumed

#### RenderCV  
- **[Schema](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/schema.json)**
- **Why chosen:** More flexible format, better suited for diverse resume layouts

### Format Conversion
- **JSON Resume → RenderCV:** [@jsonresume/jsonresume-to-rendercv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jsonresume/jsonresume-to-rendercv)
- **RenderCV → JSON Resume:** isn't that easy

Commit message:

more docs about github actions;

README.md, after:

# resume-pipeline

This repository provides a reproducible pipeline for building resumes using [RenderCV](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv) and Nix.

It converts [RenderCV YAML resumes](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/schema.json) into multiple output formats (PDF, ANSI, cleaned YAML) using customizable themes and templates. The pipeline can be run locally via Nix or automated through the included GitHub Actions workflow for deployment to GitHub Pages.

## Pipeline Overview

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    %% Inputs grouped
    subgraph IN[Inputs]
        direction TB
        N_INPUT[resume.yaml]:::data
        N_THEMES[(themes dir)]:::internal
    end

    %% Process nodes
    P_RenderCV([RenderCV]):::process
    P_JSON2ANSI([json2ansi]):::process
    P_YQ([yq]):::process

    %% Internal pipeline under RenderCV
    subgraph RCV[RenderCV internals]
        direction LR
        J2([Jinja2]):::internalProcess
        TYP([Typst]):::internalProcess
        J2 -- ".typ" --> TYP
    end

    %% Outputs grouped
    subgraph OUT[Outputs]
        direction TB
        OUT_PDF[resume.pdf]:::data
        OUT_ANSI[resume.ansi]:::data
        OUT_YAML[resume.yaml]:::data
    end

    %% Flows
    N_INPUT -- "input" --> P_RenderCV
    N_THEMES -. "internal use" .-> P_RenderCV

    %% Show RenderCV using internals
    P_RenderCV --> J2
    TYP --> OUT_PDF
    J2 -- ".md (as a workaround)" --> C[resume.ansi.json]:::data

    C --> P_JSON2ANSI
    P_JSON2ANSI --> OUT_ANSI
    N_INPUT --> P_YQ
    P_YQ -- "removing comments & design section" --> OUT_YAML

```

## Usage

To build your resume, run:

```sh
nix run github:zyasserd/resume-pipeline <input_yaml> [output_basename]
```

### Example

```sh
# Basic usage (creates resume.pdf, resume.ansi, resume.yaml)
nix run github:zyasserd/resume-pipeline my-resume.yaml

# Custom output name (creates john-doe.pdf, john-doe.ansi, john-doe.yaml)  
nix run github:zyasserd/resume-pipeline my-resume.yaml john-doe
```

## Output

After running the pipeline, an `result` directory will be created in your working directory. This folder will contain:

- `<output_basename>.pdf` (PDF version)
- `<output_basename>.ansi` (ANSI text)
- `<output_basename>.yaml` (Cleaned YAML)

In addition, it will also contain:
- `flattened_pdf_lost_links.html`
    - containing the lost information in case the PDF is flattened and the links are removed
- `index.html`
    - a directory listing

You can customize themes and templates by editing files in the `themes/` directory.


## GitHub Actions Integration

This repository includes a reusable GitHub Actions workflow that automatically builds and deploys your resume to GitHub Pages. This is perfect for maintaining an always up-to-date online version of your resume.

### Using the Workflow

Create a `.github/workflows/resume.yaml` file in your repository:

```yaml
name: Build Resume

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]

  # Allows you to run this workflow manually from the Actions tab
  workflow_dispatch:

# Sets permissions of the GITHUB_TOKEN to allow deployment to GitHub Pages
permissions:
  contents: read
  pages: write
  id-token: write
  actions: write

jobs:
  build:
    uses: zyasserd/resume-pipeline/.github/workflows/main.yaml@main
    with:
      yaml_path: 'path/to/your/resume.yaml'
      output_basename: 'resume'  # optional, defaults to 'resume'
      setup_github_pages: true   # optional, defaults to true
      save_artifact: true        # optional, defaults to true
```

### Workflow Features

- **Automatic building**: Triggered on pushes to main branch or manual dispatch
- **GitHub Pages deployment**: Automatically deploys your resume as a website
- **Artifact storage**: Saves build outputs for download
- **Configurable**: Customize output names and deployment settings



## ANSI Output Width

You can control the width of the ANSI-formatted resume output by setting the following field in your YAML file:

```yaml
design:
  ansi:
    width: 80  # Set your desired terminal width (default: 80)
```

If `design.ansi.width` is not specified, the pipeline uses a default width of **80** characters.  
This value determines how wide the resume appears in the terminal or ANSI-compatible viewers.


<br>
<br>
<br>

## Schema Alternatives

This pipeline uses RenderCV's format. Here's how it compares to alternatives:

#### jsonresume.org
- **[Schema](https://github.com/jsonresume/resume-schema/blob/master/schema.json)**
- **Pros:** Well-structured schema, strong community, good HTML themes, GitHub CI integration
- **Cons:** More restrictive (e.g., limited publications support), no LaTeX support
- **Tools:** resume-cli (unmaintained), resumed

#### RenderCV  
- **[Schema](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/schema.json)**
- **Why chosen:** More flexible format, better suited for diverse resume layouts

### Format Conversion
- **JSON Resume → RenderCV:** [@jsonresume/jsonresume-to-rendercv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jsonresume/jsonresume-to-rendercv)
- **RenderCV → JSON Resume:** isn't that easy
